# Break Glass Accounts

## Overview

A break glass account, or [emergency access account](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/entra/identity/role-based-access-control/security-emergency-access){:target="_blank"}, is a highly privileged, unlicensed, emergency access mechanism used to regain access to critical resources that can be used to recover systems. Typically, when standard administrative accounts are unavailable, due to outages, conditional access misconfiguration, Multi-Factor Authentication (MFA) failures, or account lockouts.

---

## Getting Started


It is strongly recommended to maintain two break glass accounts. One account is designated as the primary and the other as a backup. This provides a fail-safe mechanism should the primary account be inaccessible for any reason.

- Break glass accounts need to be excluded from all security controls. 
- These accounts must retain full functionality at all times. Any restrictions could lead to critical outages and operational disruptions.
- Be sure to test the account login immediately after creation to ensure validity.

---

## Storage Methods

### Offline Physical Storage

A break glass packet should be enclosed in a sealed, tamper-evident, waterproof container stored in a physically secured location such as a company safe, safe deposit box, or vault.

#### Break Glass Packet

Each break glass packet should include two of the following printed out:

- Account username and password
- Detailed login instructions including the specific account to access such as "entra.microsoft.com", "portal.azure.com", "admin.microsoft.com".
- Two FIDO2 keys (YubiKeys are recommended); one primary and one backup in case the primary key breaks. Both break glass accounts should be stored on each security key.
    - **Note**: Multi-Factor Authentication (MFA) is mandatory, even for emergency access accounts.
    - PINs for FIDO2 (Fast IDentity Online 2) pins need to be randomly generated and included on the papers. For more information about FIDO2, see [What is FIDO2?](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/security/business/security-101/what-is-fido2?msockid=0ab1f8f5d40c6fac3a72ee5cd5e96e90){:target="_blank"}
        - **Note**: You can have multiple FIDO2 credentials stored on a single security key.

#### Passwords

- Passwords must be a minimum of 32 characters; 64 characters are recommended, although the longer the password the better.
- The password should not be human generated. It must be completely randomly generated by a credential vaulting solution and set on the account. 
- Passwords should be printed using a monospaced typeface, such as Consolas.
    - This prevents confusing similar-looking characters such as the numeral zero (0) and the uppercase letter 'O', as well as the numeral one (1), lowercase 'L' (l) and uppercase 'i' (I). Since the passwords are long, it is easy to input the wrong character and not know where you made the mistake.
- Passwords must be changed immediately after every usage session (after emergency is resolved).

#### Printing

- Use a Secure Printer
    - Print passwords only on a printer that does not store printed materials. 
    - Most multi-function printers (MFPs) have internal storage that retains print jobs in plain text. 
    - If using an MFP, remove and securely erase the hard drive after printing. 
- Ensure Privacy During Printing 
    - Confirm that no security cameras are directed toward the printer. 
        - Cameras can capture printed content, and anyone with access to footage could obtain privileged credentials. 
    - Ensure that unauthorized personnel are not present during printing.
    - Ensure that people are not present with Eidetic (photographic) memory/total recall or are familiar with fast memorization techniques.
- Print and Store Copies 
    - Print two copies of the packet for each break glass storage location. 
        - Store the copies inverted relative to each other to minimize the impact of water damage. 
        - If water damage occurs, it typically affects only part of the packet, allowing reconstruction from unaffected sections. 
    - If you do not have a secondary location, consider using a safe deposit box.   
- Maintain Redundancy
    - Keep two complete sets in each location to ensure availability if one set is damaged.

---

## Additional Considerations

### Auditing

Break glass accounts should be monitored and audited as much as possible. It is essential to track all activities associated with these accounts, as they operate without restrictions.

- Break glass accounts should not be excluded from auditing controls.


### Notifications

Notifications must be set up inside of the security information and event management (SIEM) solution of your choice to ensure timely alerts. Notifications should include phone calls, emails, and text messages sent to everyone in the chain, especially the person in charge of information technology, such as the Chief Information Officer (CIO), Chief Information Security Officer (CISO), Director of Information Technology (IT), or equivalent. All security personnel must be alerted if there is:

- Any successful sign-in from a break glass account
- Any password reset or modification

**Note**: Notifications may take up to 5 minutes after authentication, due to a limitation in log analytics if using Microsoft Sentinel.

---
